---
title: 2019 Goals
description: So it has been a while since I have written anything on this site, or let alone touched it. So I have decided to give it a bit of a refresh and set some new goals for 2019 to try and meet. With that said, I want to thank you for taking a peek back at my site after a year of nothing new.
tags: [Personal]
published: 2019-01-26
url: /2019/01/2019-goals/
category: Archive

---
So it has been a while since I have written anything on this site, or let alone touched it. So I have decided to give it a bit of a refresh and set some new goals for 2019 to try and meet. With that said, I want to thank you for taking a peek back at my site after a year of nothing new. I have been working really hard at my day job that keeps me very busy managing lots of servers. However, I plan to take back my personal life somewhat this year as my biggest goal and start getting back into working on hobby projects in my spare time. With that said, I plan on talking about some of my projects that I have worked on here and there and some of the stuff I have done to keep doing through the year.

**Decentralized Services**  
Well, the biggest thing I want to try and move into this year is going into decentralized services. For those who don't know what that is, it is a service that doesn't depend on one person/organization to keep it running. One of the biggest examples of one I am using is Mastodon, which is an alternative to Twitter. Basically Twitter, but small communities and individuals can host their own instance and link them together. This allows my personal instance to follow and communicate with people in other instances, without them needing to sign up on my server or on mine.  
The best part of these decentralized services is, they give me more control over my data and allow me to make better choices of who I want to have my data and who I share it with. There are a few other services that are working their way to decentralization options, such as IPFS(a decentralized file system) which even CloudFlare picked up on and is hosting their own gateway.

 **Sharing Tips**  
There are a lot of little cost savings tips and workarounds that I have been building for myself because I want to try and do things as affordable as I can, but also there are times I want to make something work the way I want it too. So I will be posting some short guides on things I have done to just share my knowledge.  
Anyways, hope to see you guys around!